docs/deploy/self-hosted/extensions.mdx, before:

---
title: Extensions
---

<Note>
  If you are self-hosting, we do not recommend installing ParadeDB in your
  primary Postgres. ParadeDB is designed to run as a [logical
  replica](/deploy/self-hosted/logical-replication) of your primary, which
  isolates search and analytical workloads from your primary.
</Note>

If you already self-manage Postgres, you may prefer to install ParadeDB directly within your self-managed
Postgres instead of deploying the ParadeDB Helm chart.

This can be done by installing the two extensions that ParadeDB uses:

- The `pg_search` extension powers all of ParadeDB's [full text search and analytics](/documentation).
- The `pg_analytics` extension powers ParadeDB's [integrations](/integrations).

## Prerequisites

Ensure that you have superuser access to the Postgres database.

Next, install `libicu`.

<CodeGroup>

```bash Ubuntu 20.04 or 22.04
sudo apt-get install -y libicu70
```

```bash Ubuntu 24.04
sudo apt-get install -y libicu74
```

</CodeGroup>

## Install the ParadeDB Postgres Extensions

### ParadeDB Community

ParadeDB provides prebuilt binaries for our extensions on

- Debian 12
- Ubuntu 22.04 and 24.04
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9
- macOS 14 (Sonoma) and 15 (Sequoia)

Postgres 14, 15, 16, and 17 are available. If you are using a different version of Postgres or a different operating system, you will need to build the extensions from source.

#### pg_search

The prebuilt releases can be found in [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/latest).

<Note>
  You can replace `0.14.1` with the `pg_search` version you wish to install and
  `17` with the version of Postgres you are using.
</Note>

<CodeGroup>

```bash Ubuntu 24.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/postgresql-17-pg-search_0.14.1-1PARADEDB-noble_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_search.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Ubuntu 22.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/postgresql-17-pg-search_0.14.1-1PARADEDB-jammy_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_search.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Debian 12
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/postgresql-17-pg-search_0.14.1-1PARADEDB-bookworm_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_search.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash RHEL 9
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search_17-0.14.1-1PARADEDB.el9.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_search.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

```bash RHEL 8
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search_17-0.14.1-1PARADEDB.el8.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_search.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

```bash macOS 15 (Sequoia)
# Available arch version is arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search@17--0.14.1.arm64_sequoia.pkg" -o ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg
sudo installer -pkg ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg -target /
```

```bash macOS 14 (Sonoma)
# Available arch version is arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search@17--0.14.1.arm64_sonoma.pkg" -o ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg
sudo installer -pkg ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg -target /
```

</CodeGroup>

#### pg_analytics

The prebuilt releases can be found in [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/latest).

<Note>
  You can replace `0.3.0` with the `pg_analytics` version you wish to install
  and `17` with the version of Postgres you are using.
</Note>

<CodeGroup>

```bash Ubuntu 24.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/postgresql-17-pg-analytics_0.3.0-1PARADEDB-noble_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Ubuntu 22.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/postgresql-17-pg-analytics_0.3.0-1PARADEDB-jammy_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Debian 12
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/postgresql-17-pg-analytics_0.3.0-1PARADEDB-bookworm_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash RHEL 9
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/pg_analytics_17-0.3.0-1PARADEDB.el9.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

```bash RHEL 8
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/pg_analytics_17-0.3.0-1PARADEDB.el8.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

</CodeGroup>

### ParadeDB Enterprise

If you are a [ParadeDB Enterprise](/deploy/enterprise) user, you should have received a copy of the enterprise binaries. Please [contact sales](mailto:sales@paradedb.com) for access.

## Update `postgresql.conf`

Next, add the extension(s) to `shared_preload_libraries` in `postgresql.conf`.

```ini
shared_preload_libraries = 'pg_search,pg_analytics'
```

Reload the Postgres server for these changes to take effect.

## Load the Extensions

Finally, connect to your Postgres database via your client of choice (e.g. `psql`) and run the following command:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION pg_search;
CREATE EXTENSION pg_analytics;
```

<Note>
  `pg_search` can be combined with `pgvector` for hybrid search. You can find
  the instructions for installing `pgvector`
  [here](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector?tab=readme-ov-file#installation).
</Note>

Commit message:

feat: allow pg_search to not be in shared_preload_libraries on PG 17
There doesn't seem to be any reason why pg_search has to be in
shared_preload_libraries on PG 17.

Signed-off-by: Tristan Partin <tristan@partin.io>

docs/deploy/self-hosted/extensions.mdx, after:

---
title: Extensions
---

<Note>
  If you are self-hosting, we do not recommend installing ParadeDB in your
  primary Postgres. ParadeDB is designed to run as a [logical
  replica](/deploy/self-hosted/logical-replication) of your primary, which
  isolates search and analytical workloads from your primary.
</Note>

If you already self-manage Postgres, you may prefer to install ParadeDB directly within your self-managed
Postgres instead of deploying the ParadeDB Helm chart.

This can be done by installing the two extensions that ParadeDB uses:

- The `pg_search` extension powers all of ParadeDB's [full text search and analytics](/documentation).
- The `pg_analytics` extension powers ParadeDB's [integrations](/integrations).

## Prerequisites

Ensure that you have superuser access to the Postgres database.

Next, install `libicu`.

<CodeGroup>

```bash Ubuntu 20.04 or 22.04
sudo apt-get install -y libicu70
```

```bash Ubuntu 24.04
sudo apt-get install -y libicu74
```

</CodeGroup>

## Install the ParadeDB Postgres Extensions

### ParadeDB Community

ParadeDB provides prebuilt binaries for our extensions on

- Debian 12
- Ubuntu 22.04 and 24.04
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9
- macOS 14 (Sonoma) and 15 (Sequoia)

Postgres 14, 15, 16, and 17 are available. If you are using a different version of Postgres or a different operating system, you will need to build the extensions from source.

#### pg_search

The prebuilt releases can be found in [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/latest).

<Note>
  You can replace `0.14.1` with the `pg_search` version you wish to install and
  `17` with the version of Postgres you are using.
</Note>

<CodeGroup>

```bash Ubuntu 24.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/postgresql-17-pg-search_0.14.1-1PARADEDB-noble_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_search.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Ubuntu 22.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/postgresql-17-pg-search_0.14.1-1PARADEDB-jammy_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_search.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Debian 12
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/postgresql-17-pg-search_0.14.1-1PARADEDB-bookworm_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_search.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash RHEL 9
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search_17-0.14.1-1PARADEDB.el9.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_search.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

```bash RHEL 8
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search_17-0.14.1-1PARADEDB.el8.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_search.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

```bash macOS 15 (Sequoia)
# Available arch version is arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search@17--0.14.1.arm64_sequoia.pkg" -o ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg
sudo installer -pkg ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg -target /
```

```bash macOS 14 (Sonoma)
# Available arch version is arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/download/v0.14.1/pg_search@17--0.14.1.arm64_sonoma.pkg" -o ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg
sudo installer -pkg ~/Downloads/pg_search.pkg -target /
```

</CodeGroup>

#### pg_analytics

The prebuilt releases can be found in [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/latest).

<Note>
  You can replace `0.3.0` with the `pg_analytics` version you wish to install
  and `17` with the version of Postgres you are using.
</Note>

<CodeGroup>

```bash Ubuntu 24.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/postgresql-17-pg-analytics_0.3.0-1PARADEDB-noble_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Ubuntu 22.04
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/postgresql-17-pg-analytics_0.3.0-1PARADEDB-jammy_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash Debian 12
# Available arch versions are amd64, arm64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/postgresql-17-pg-analytics_0.3.0-1PARADEDB-bookworm_amd64.deb" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.deb
sudo apt-get install -y /tmp/*.deb
```

```bash RHEL 9
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/pg_analytics_17-0.3.0-1PARADEDB.el9.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

```bash RHEL 8
# Available arch versions are x86_64, aarch64
curl -L "https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics/releases/download/v0.3.0/pg_analytics_17-0.3.0-1PARADEDB.el8.x86_64.rpm" -o /tmp/pg_analytics.rpm
sudo dnf install -y /tmp/*.rpm
```

</CodeGroup>

### ParadeDB Enterprise

If you are a [ParadeDB Enterprise](/deploy/enterprise) user, you should have received a copy of the enterprise binaries. Please [contact sales](mailto:sales@paradedb.com) for access.

## Update `postgresql.conf`

Next, add the extension(s) to `shared_preload_libraries` in `postgresql.conf`. Adding `pg_search` to `shared_preload_libraries` is unnecessary if your Postgres version 17 or higher.

```ini
shared_preload_libraries = 'pg_search,pg_analytics'
```

Reload the Postgres server for these changes to take effect.

## Load the Extensions

Finally, connect to your Postgres database via your client of choice (e.g. `psql`) and run the following command:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION pg_search;
CREATE EXTENSION pg_analytics;
```

<Note>
  `pg_search` can be combined with `pgvector` for hybrid search. You can find
  the instructions for installing `pgvector`
  [here](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector?tab=readme-ov-file#installation).
</Note>
