docs/analytics/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: Quickstart
---

<Note>
  ParadeDB Analytics is powered by our new extension, `pg_lakehouse`. This
  extension replaces `pg_analytics`, our original extension. Documentation for
  `pg_analytics` has been [preserved](/analytics_deprecated/quickstart) for
  existing users.
</Note>

## Overview

ParadeDB Analytics transforms Postgres into a fast analytical query engine over external object stores like Amazon S3, file
formats like Parquet, and table formats like Delta Lake. Queries are pushed down to [Apache DataFusion](https://github.com/apache/datafusion), which
delivers excellent analytical performance.

## Getting Started

The following example queries an example dataset of 3 million NYC taxi trips from January 2024, hosted in a
public S3 bucket provided by ParadeDB.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER s3_wrapper
HANDLER s3_fdw_handler
VALIDATOR s3_fdw_validator;

-- Provide S3 credentials
CREATE SERVER s3_server FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER s3_wrapper
OPTIONS (
    bucket 'paradedb-benchmarks',
    region 'us-east-1',
    allow_anonymous 'true'
);

-- Create foreign table
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE trips (
    "VendorID"              INT,
    "tpep_pickup_datetime"  TIMESTAMP,
    "tpep_dropoff_datetime" TIMESTAMP,
    "passenger_count"       BIGINT,
    "trip_distance"         DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "RatecodeID"            DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "store_and_fwd_flag"    TEXT,
    "PULocationID"          REAL,
    "DOLocationID"          REAL,
    "payment_type"          DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "fare_amount"           DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "extra"                 DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "mta_tax"               DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "tip_amount"            DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "tolls_amount"          DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "improvement_surcharge" DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "total_amount"          DOUBLE PRECISION
)
SERVER s3_server
OPTIONS (
    path 's3://paradedb-benchmarks/yellow_tripdata_2024-01.parquet',
    extension 'parquet'
);

-- Success! Now you can query the file like a regular Postgres table
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM trips;
  count
---------
 2964624
(1 row)
```

Note that column names must be wrapped in double quotes to preserve uppercase letters. This is because DataFusion
is case-sensitive and Postgres' foreign table column names must match the foreign table's column names exactly.

That's it! To query your own object store, please refer to the [object stores](/analytics/object_stores) and
[foreign table schema](/analytics/schema) documentation.

## For Further Assistance

The `paradedb.help` function opens a Github Discussion that the ParadeDB team will respond to.

```sql
SELECT paradedb.help(
  subject => $$Something isn't working$$,
  body => $$Issue description$$
);
```

Commit message:

docs: Make it more clear how to create a foreign table over a directory (#1150)

docs/analytics/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: Quickstart
---

<Note>
  ParadeDB Analytics is powered by our new extension, `pg_lakehouse`. This
  extension replaces `pg_analytics`, our original extension. Documentation for
  `pg_analytics` has been [preserved](/analytics_deprecated/quickstart) for
  existing users.
</Note>

## Overview

ParadeDB Analytics transforms Postgres into a fast analytical query engine over external object stores like Amazon S3, file
formats like Parquet, and table formats like Delta Lake. Queries are pushed down to [Apache DataFusion](https://github.com/apache/datafusion), which
delivers excellent analytical performance.

## Getting Started

The following example queries an example dataset of 3 million NYC taxi trips from January 2024, hosted in a
public S3 bucket provided by ParadeDB.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER s3_wrapper
HANDLER s3_fdw_handler
VALIDATOR s3_fdw_validator;

-- Provide S3 credentials
CREATE SERVER s3_server FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER s3_wrapper
OPTIONS (
    bucket 'paradedb-benchmarks',
    region 'us-east-1',
    allow_anonymous 'true'
);

-- Create foreign table
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE trips (
    "VendorID"              INT,
    "tpep_pickup_datetime"  TIMESTAMP,
    "tpep_dropoff_datetime" TIMESTAMP,
    "passenger_count"       BIGINT,
    "trip_distance"         DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "RatecodeID"            DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "store_and_fwd_flag"    TEXT,
    "PULocationID"          REAL,
    "DOLocationID"          REAL,
    "payment_type"          DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "fare_amount"           DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "extra"                 DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "mta_tax"               DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "tip_amount"            DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "tolls_amount"          DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "improvement_surcharge" DOUBLE PRECISION,
    "total_amount"          DOUBLE PRECISION
)
SERVER s3_server
OPTIONS (
    path 's3://paradedb-benchmarks/yellow_tripdata_2024-01.parquet',
    extension 'parquet'
);

-- Success! Now you can query the file like a regular Postgres table
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM trips;
  count
---------
 2964624
(1 row)
```

<Note>
  If `path` points to a directory of partitioned files, it must end in a `/`.
</Note>

<Note>
  Column names must be wrapped in double quotes to preserve uppercase letters.
  This is because DataFusion is case-sensitive and Postgres' foreign table
  column names must match the foreign table's column names exactly.
</Note>

That's it! To query your own object store, please refer to the [object stores](/analytics/object_stores) and
[foreign table schema](/analytics/schema) documentation.

## For Further Assistance

The `paradedb.help` function opens a Github Discussion that the ParadeDB team will respond to.

```sql
SELECT paradedb.help(
  subject => $$Something isn't working$$,
  body => $$Issue description$$
);
```
