docs/search/performance.mdx, before:

---
title: Performance Optimization
---

Achieving the best performance out of ParadeDB requires configuring it properly for your system
and workload(s). Here we provide a list of best practices to serve as a starting point to optimizing
your search queries.

## Implement Pagination

If you do not specify any `limit_rows` and `offset_rows`, ParadeDB will rank results on your entire
index, which can meaningfully slow down search queries. We suggest that you use limits and offsets to
scope each search query to the number of results that you want to display at any given time on your application.

Note the use of `limits_rows` and `offset_rows`, as opposed to `LIMIT` and `OFFSET`, which are not pushed down
to the BM25 index.

```sql
-- ✅ Correct syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM search_idx.search(
  '(description:keyboard OR category:electronics) AND rating:>2',
  limit_rows => 5
);

-- ❌ Incorrect syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM search_idx.search(
  '(description:keyboard OR category:electronics) AND rating:>2')
LIMIT 5;
```

## Select the Appropriate Hardware

Higher amounts of RAM and a faster storage driver are the two most important hardware components
to extracting the best performance from ParadeDB. We recommend that you select memory-optimized instances
with SSD storage when deploying.

## Optimize the Tantivy Settings

Coming soon.

### Heap Size

Coming soon.

### Reader Cache

Coming soon.

### Number of Documents per Segment

Coming soon.

### Number of Indexing Threads

Coming soon.

## Optimize the Postgres Settings

There are a few Postgres settings which can be modified to improve the performance of ParadeDB. You can find
all the settings in `/var/lib/postgresql/data/postgresql.conf` in the ParadeDB Docker image.

### work_mem

Memory used for sort operations and hash tables. If your ParadeDB query combines BM25 search
queries with complex Postgres operations like JOINs, a higher `work_mem` can significantly
improve performance.

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET WORK_MEM = '16MB';
SELECT pg_reload_conf();
```

Note that updating this setting _does not require_ restarting the Postgres process, simply reloading
the configuration file. This change will apply to all future sessions.

### max_connections

Defines the maximum number of simultaneous connections to ParadeDB. A high number of connections
can lead to resource contention and slow down search queries. If you need to use a high number of
connections, we recommend using a connection pooler like [PgBouncer](https://www.pgbouncer.org/).

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET max_connections = '200';
```

Note that updating this setting _requires_ restarting the Postgres process. This change will apply to
all future sessions.

Commit message:

adding heap size and reader cache

docs/search/performance.mdx, after:

---
title: Performance Optimization
---

Achieving the best performance out of ParadeDB requires configuring it properly for your system
and workload(s). Here we provide a list of best practices to serve as a starting point to optimizing
your search queries.

## Implement Pagination

If you do not specify any `limit_rows` and `offset_rows`, ParadeDB will rank results on your entire
index, which can meaningfully slow down search queries. We suggest that you use limits and offsets to
scope each search query to the number of results that you want to display at any given time on your application.

Note the use of `limits_rows` and `offset_rows`, as opposed to `LIMIT` and `OFFSET`, which are not pushed down
to the BM25 index.

```sql
-- ✅ Correct syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM search_idx.search(
  '(description:keyboard OR category:electronics) AND rating:>2',
  limit_rows => 5
);

-- ❌ Incorrect syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM search_idx.search(
  '(description:keyboard OR category:electronics) AND rating:>2')
LIMIT 5;
```

## Select the Appropriate Hardware

Higher amounts of RAM and a faster storage driver are the two most important hardware components
to extracting the best performance from ParadeDB. We recommend that you select memory-optimized instances
with SSD storage when deploying.

## Optimize the Tantivy Settings

Coming soon.

### Heap Size

The memory_budget setting defines the maximum heap size in bytes allocated to a search index. Proper configuration ensures efficient memory use, preventing excessive disk I/O during searches.

Default: 500 MB (500_000_000 bytes)
Minimum: 15 MB (15_000_000 bytes)

Adjust the memory_budget based on your system's available memory and the size of your indexes to optimize performance.

### Reader Cache

The reader_cache_num_blocks setting controls the number of blocks reserved for caching index data in memory. A well-sized reader cache minimizes disk access, leading to faster query responses.

Default: 100 blocks

Increasing the reader_cache_num_blocks can significantly improve performance, especially for frequently accessed data, by reducing the need to read from disk repeatedly.

### Number of Documents per Segment

Coming soon.

### Number of Indexing Threads

Coming soon.

## Optimize the Postgres Settings

There are a few Postgres settings which can be modified to improve the performance of ParadeDB. You can find
all the settings in `/var/lib/postgresql/data/postgresql.conf` in the ParadeDB Docker image.

### work_mem

Memory used for sort operations and hash tables. If your ParadeDB query combines BM25 search
queries with complex Postgres operations like JOINs, a higher `work_mem` can significantly
improve performance.

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET WORK_MEM = '16MB';
SELECT pg_reload_conf();
```

Note that updating this setting _does not require_ restarting the Postgres process, simply reloading
the configuration file. This change will apply to all future sessions.

### max_connections

Defines the maximum number of simultaneous connections to ParadeDB. A high number of connections
can lead to resource contention and slow down search queries. If you need to use a high number of
connections, we recommend using a connection pooler like [PgBouncer](https://www.pgbouncer.org/).

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET max_connections = '200';
```

Note that updating this setting _requires_ restarting the Postgres process. This change will apply to
all future sessions.
