docs/documentation/indexing/create_index.mdx, before:

---
title: Create an Index
---

## Basic Usage

The following code block creates a [BM25 index](/documentation/concepts/index) called `search_idx` over multiple columns of the `mock_items` table.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description') || paradedb.field('category'),
  numeric_fields => paradedb.field('rating'),
  boolean_fields => paradedb.field('in_stock'),
  datetime_fields => paradedb.field('created_at'),
  json_fields => paradedb.field('metadata'),
  range_fields => paradedb.field('weight_range')
);
```

<ParamField body="index_name" required>
  The name of the index being created.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="table_name" required>
  The name of the table being indexed.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="key_field" required>
  The name of a column in the table that represents a unique identifier for each
  record. Usually, this is the same column that is the primary key of the table.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="schema_name" default="CURRENT SCHEMA">
  The name of the schema, or namespace, of the table.
</ParamField>

## Indexing Settings

Several [settings](/documentation/configuration/index) exist to control the amount of resources to allocate during index creation.  While they have sensible
defaults, overall indexing performance can be drastically improved if configured for the host system.

## Field Types

In addition to text fields, numeric, datetime, boolean, and JSON fields can also be indexed. For optimal performance, we recommend indexing all fields
that are relevant to your search query.

For instance, by indexing both `description` and `rating`, filters over `rating` can be pushed down to the full text query for optimal query speed.

```sql
SELECT id, description, rating
FROM mock_items
WHERE description @@@ 'shoes' AND rating @@@ '>3'
ORDER BY id;
```

<Accordion title="Expected Response">
```csv
 id |     description     | rating
----+---------------------+--------
  3 | Sleek running shoes |      5
  5 | Generic shoes       |      4
(2 rows)
```
</Accordion>

### Text Fields

Columns of type `VARCHAR`, `TEXT`, `UUID`, and their corresponding array types can be indexed as text fields.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description', indexed => true)
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts the following configuration options for text fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={false}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fieldnorms" default={true}>
  Fieldnorms store information about the length of the text field. Must be
  `true` to calculate the BM25 score.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="tokenizer">
  See [tokenizers](/documentation/indexing/tokenizers) for how to configure the
  tokenizer.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="record" default="position">
  Describes the amount of information indexed. See
  [record](/documentation/indexing/record) for a list of available record types.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="normalizer">
  The name of the tokenizer used for fast fields. This field is ignored unless
  `fast=true`. See
  [normalizers](/documentation/indexing/fast_fields#normalizers) for a list of
  available normalizers.
</ParamField>

### Numeric Fields

Columns of type `SMALLINT`, `INTEGER`, `BIGINT`, `OID`, `REAL`, `DOUBLE PRECISION`, `NUMERIC`, and their corresponding array types can be indexed
as `numeric_fields`. The main reason to index a numeric field is if it is used for filtering or aggregations as part of the search query.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  numeric_fields => paradedb.field('rating', indexed => true)
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts the following configuration options numeric fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={true}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>

### Boolean Fields

Columns of type `BOOLEAN` and `BOOLEAN[]` can be indexed as `boolean_fields`. Indexing a boolean field is useful if
it is used for filtering as part of the search query.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  boolean_fields => paradedb.field('in_stock')
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts several configuration options for boolean fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={true}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>

### JSON Fields

Columns of type `JSON` and `JSONB` can be indexed as `json_fields`. Once indexed, search can be
performed on nested text fields within JSON values.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  json_fields => paradedb.field('metadata')
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts several configuration options for JSON fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be tokenized and
  searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={false}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must have `fast` set to `true`.
  Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring and filtering.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="expand_dots" default={true}>
  If `true`, JSON keys containing a `.` will be expanded. For instance, if `expand_dots` is `true`,
  `{"metadata.color": "red"}` will be indexed as if it was `{"metadata": {"color": "red"}}`.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="tokenizer">
  See [tokenizers](/documentation/indexing/tokenizers) for how to configure the tokenizer.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="record" default="position">
  Describes the amount of information indexed. See [record](/documentation/indexing/record) for a list of available
  record types.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="normalizer">
  The name of the tokenizer used for fast fields. This field is ignored unless
  `fast=true`. See [normalizers](/documentation/indexing/fast_fields#normalizers) for a list of available
  normalizers.
</ParamField>

### Datetime Fields

Columns of type `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP`, `TIMESTAMPTZ`, `TIME`, `TIMETZ`, and their corresponding array types can be indexed as `datetime_fields`.
Indexing a datetime field is useful if it is used for filtering as part of the search query.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  datetime_fields => paradedb.field('created_at')
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts several configuration options for boolean fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={true}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>

### Array Fields

`text_fields`, `numeric_fields`, `boolean_fields`, and `datetime_fields` support array types. For instance, columns of
type `TEXT[]` can be passed into `text_fields`, and columns of type `INT[]` can be passed into `numeric_fields`.

<Note>
  The only exception are `JSON[]` and `JSONB[]` types, which are not yet
  supported.
</Note>

### Range Fields

Columns of type `int4range`, `int8range`, `numrange`, `tsrange`, and `tstzrange` can be indexed as `range_fields`.
The [range term](/documentation/advanced/term/range_term) query is used to filter over these fields.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  range_fields => paradedb.field('weight_range')
);
```

<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>

### Enumerated Types

Custom Postgres [enums](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-enum.html) should be indexed as `numeric_fields`.
This is because enums are stored as float values in Postgres.

```sql
CREATE TYPE color AS ENUM ('red', 'green', 'blue');
ALTER TABLE mock_items ADD COLUMN color color;

CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  numeric_fields => paradedb.field('color')
);
```

Enums should be queried with [term queries](/documentation/advanced/term/term).

<Note>
If the ordering of the enum is changed with `ADD VALUE ... [ BEFORE | AFTER ]`, the BM25 index should be dropped
and recreated to account for the new enum ordinal values.
</Note>

### Multiple Fields

The `||` operator can be used to index multiple fields.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description') || paradedb.field('category')
);
```

## Choosing a Key Field

The `key_field` option is used to uniquely identify documents within an index and cannot be tokenized. For instance,
the following configuration is not allowed:

```sql
-- This will throw an error
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'description',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description')
);
```

## Legacy Syntax

The `paradedb.field` and `paradedb.tokenizer` functions were introduced in `0.8.6`. These functions are
syntactic sugar for generating `JSONB`. Users that prefer the old syntax can still pass `jsonb` into `_fields`.

```sql
-- These two queries are equivalent
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => '{"description": {"tokenizer": {"type": "default"}}}'
);

CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field(
    'description',
    tokenizer => paradedb.tokenizer('default')
  )
);
```

Commit message:

docs: recommend integer key field (#1928)

docs/documentation/indexing/create_index.mdx, after:

---
title: Create an Index
---

## Basic Usage

The following code block creates a [BM25 index](/documentation/concepts/index) called `search_idx` over multiple columns of the `mock_items` table.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description') || paradedb.field('category'),
  numeric_fields => paradedb.field('rating'),
  boolean_fields => paradedb.field('in_stock'),
  datetime_fields => paradedb.field('created_at'),
  json_fields => paradedb.field('metadata'),
  range_fields => paradedb.field('weight_range')
);
```

<ParamField body="index_name" required>
  The name of the index being created.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="table_name" required>
  The name of the table being indexed.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="key_field" required>
  The name of a column in the table that represents a unique identifier for each
  record. Usually, this is the same column that is the primary key of the table.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="schema_name" default="CURRENT SCHEMA">
  The name of the schema, or namespace, of the table.
</ParamField>

## Indexing Settings

Several [settings](/documentation/configuration/index) exist to control the amount of resources to allocate during index creation.  While they have sensible
defaults, overall indexing performance can be drastically improved if configured for the host system.

## Field Types

In addition to text fields, numeric, datetime, boolean, and JSON fields can also be indexed. For optimal performance, we recommend indexing all fields
that are relevant to your search query.

For instance, by indexing both `description` and `rating`, filters over `rating` can be pushed down to the full text query for optimal query speed.

```sql
SELECT id, description, rating
FROM mock_items
WHERE description @@@ 'shoes' AND rating @@@ '>3'
ORDER BY id;
```

<Accordion title="Expected Response">
```csv
 id |     description     | rating
----+---------------------+--------
  3 | Sleek running shoes |      5
  5 | Generic shoes       |      4
(2 rows)
```
</Accordion>

### Text Fields

Columns of type `VARCHAR`, `TEXT`, `UUID`, and their corresponding array types can be indexed as text fields.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description', indexed => true)
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts the following configuration options for text fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={false}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fieldnorms" default={true}>
  Fieldnorms store information about the length of the text field. Must be
  `true` to calculate the BM25 score.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="tokenizer">
  See [tokenizers](/documentation/indexing/tokenizers) for how to configure the
  tokenizer.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="record" default="position">
  Describes the amount of information indexed. See
  [record](/documentation/indexing/record) for a list of available record types.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="normalizer">
  The name of the tokenizer used for fast fields. This field is ignored unless
  `fast=true`. See
  [normalizers](/documentation/indexing/fast_fields#normalizers) for a list of
  available normalizers.
</ParamField>

### Numeric Fields

Columns of type `SMALLINT`, `INTEGER`, `BIGINT`, `OID`, `REAL`, `DOUBLE PRECISION`, `NUMERIC`, and their corresponding array types can be indexed
as `numeric_fields`. The main reason to index a numeric field is if it is used for filtering or aggregations as part of the search query.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  numeric_fields => paradedb.field('rating', indexed => true)
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts the following configuration options numeric fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={true}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>

### Boolean Fields

Columns of type `BOOLEAN` and `BOOLEAN[]` can be indexed as `boolean_fields`. Indexing a boolean field is useful if
it is used for filtering as part of the search query.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  boolean_fields => paradedb.field('in_stock')
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts several configuration options for boolean fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={true}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>

### JSON Fields

Columns of type `JSON` and `JSONB` can be indexed as `json_fields`. Once indexed, search can be
performed on nested text fields within JSON values.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  json_fields => paradedb.field('metadata')
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts several configuration options for JSON fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be tokenized and
  searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={false}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must have `fast` set to `true`.
  Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring and filtering.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="expand_dots" default={true}>
  If `true`, JSON keys containing a `.` will be expanded. For instance, if `expand_dots` is `true`,
  `{"metadata.color": "red"}` will be indexed as if it was `{"metadata": {"color": "red"}}`.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="tokenizer">
  See [tokenizers](/documentation/indexing/tokenizers) for how to configure the tokenizer.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="record" default="position">
  Describes the amount of information indexed. See [record](/documentation/indexing/record) for a list of available
  record types.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="normalizer">
  The name of the tokenizer used for fast fields. This field is ignored unless
  `fast=true`. See [normalizers](/documentation/indexing/fast_fields#normalizers) for a list of available
  normalizers.
</ParamField>

### Datetime Fields

Columns of type `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP`, `TIMESTAMPTZ`, `TIME`, `TIMETZ`, and their corresponding array types can be indexed as `datetime_fields`.
Indexing a datetime field is useful if it is used for filtering as part of the search query.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  datetime_fields => paradedb.field('created_at')
);
```

`paradedb.field` accepts several configuration options for boolean fields:

<ParamField body="indexed" default={true}>
  Whether the field is indexed. Must be `true` in order for the field to be
  tokenized and searchable.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="fast" default={true}>
  Fast fields can be random-accessed rapidly. Fields used for aggregation must
  have `fast` set to `true`. Fast fields are also useful for accelerated scoring
  and filtering.
</ParamField>

### Array Fields

`text_fields`, `numeric_fields`, `boolean_fields`, and `datetime_fields` support array types. For instance, columns of
type `TEXT[]` can be passed into `text_fields`, and columns of type `INT[]` can be passed into `numeric_fields`.

<Note>
  The only exception are `JSON[]` and `JSONB[]` types, which are not yet
  supported.
</Note>

### Range Fields

Columns of type `int4range`, `int8range`, `numrange`, `tsrange`, and `tstzrange` can be indexed as `range_fields`.
The [range term](/documentation/advanced/term/range_term) query is used to filter over these fields.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  range_fields => paradedb.field('weight_range')
);
```

<ParamField body="stored" default={true}>
  Whether the original value of the field is stored.
</ParamField>

### Enumerated Types

Custom Postgres [enums](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-enum.html) should be indexed as `numeric_fields`.
This is because enums are stored as float values in Postgres.

```sql
CREATE TYPE color AS ENUM ('red', 'green', 'blue');
ALTER TABLE mock_items ADD COLUMN color color;

CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  numeric_fields => paradedb.field('color')
);
```

Enums should be queried with [term queries](/documentation/advanced/term/term).

<Note>
If the ordering of the enum is changed with `ADD VALUE ... [ BEFORE | AFTER ]`, the BM25 index should be dropped
and recreated to account for the new enum ordinal values.
</Note>

### Multiple Fields

The `||` operator can be used to index multiple fields.

```sql
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description') || paradedb.field('category')
);
```

## Choosing a Key Field

While the key field can be any unique text, numeric, or datetime value, an integer key field will be the most
performant. The Postgres `SERIAL` type is an easy way to create a unique integer column.

Additionally, the key field is not intended to be tokenized. For instance, the following configuration is not allowed:

```sql
-- This will throw an error
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'description',
  text_fields => paradedb.field('description')
);
```

## Legacy Syntax

The `paradedb.field` and `paradedb.tokenizer` functions were introduced in `0.8.6`. These functions are
syntactic sugar for generating `JSONB`. Users that prefer the old syntax can still pass `jsonb` into `_fields`.

```sql
-- These two queries are equivalent
CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => '{"description": {"tokenizer": {"type": "default"}}}'
);

CALL paradedb.create_bm25(
  index_name => 'search_idx',
  table_name => 'mock_items',
  key_field => 'id',
  text_fields => paradedb.field(
    'description',
    tokenizer => paradedb.tokenizer('default')
  )
);
```
