docs/analytics/import/csv.mdx, before:

---
title: CSV
---

## Overview

This code block demonstrates how to create a foreign table over CSV file(s).

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER <wrapper_name>
HANDLER csv_fdw_handler
VALIDATOR csv_fdw_validator;

CREATE SERVER <server_name>
FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER <wrapper_name>;

CREATE FOREIGN TABLE <table_name> ()
SERVER <server_name>
OPTIONS (files '<files>');
```

<Accordion title = "Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER csv_wrapper
HANDLER csv_fdw_handler
VALIDATOR csv_fdw_validator;

CREATE SERVER csv_server
FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER csv_wrapper;

CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv');

````
</Accordion>

<ParamField body="wrapper_name" required>
  Foreign data wrapper name. Can be any string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="server_name" required>
  Foreign server name. Can be any string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="table_name" required>
  Foreign table name. Can be any string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="files" required>
The path of a single CSV file or [multiple CSV files](#multiple-csv-files).
For instance, `s3://bucket/folder/file.csv` if the file is in Amazon S3 or `/path/to/file.csv`
if the file is on the local file system.
</ParamField>

## CSV Options

There are a number of options that can be passed into the `CREATE FOREIGN TABLE` statement.
These are the same [options](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/csv/overview#parameters) accepted
by DuckDB's `read_csv` function.

<ParamField body="all_varchar" default="false">
Option to skip type detection for CSV parsing and assume all columns to be of type`VARCHAR`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="allow_quoted_nulls" default="true">
Option to allow the conversion of quoted values to `NULL` values.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="auto_detect" default="true">
Enables auto detection of CSV parameters. See [Auto Detection](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/csv/auto_detection.html).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="auto_type_candidates">
This option allows you to specify the types that the sniffer will use when detecting CSV column types.
The `VARCHAR` type is always included in the detected types (as a fallback option).
See [Auto Type Candidates](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/csv/overview#auto_type_candidates-details).

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    auto_type_candidates 'BIGINT, DATE'
);
````

</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="columns">
A struct that specifies the column names and column types contained within the CSV file
(e.g., `{'col1': 'INTEGER', 'col2': 'VARCHAR'}`). Using this option implies that auto detection is
not used.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    columns $${'FlightDate': 'DATE', 'UniqueCarrier': 'VARCHAR'}$$
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="compression" default="auto">
  The compression type for the file. By default this will be detected
  automatically from the file extension (e.g., `t.csv.gz` will use `gzip`,
  `t.csv` will use `none`). Options are `none`, `gzip`, `zstd`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="dateformat">
  Specifies the date format to use when parsing dates. See [Date
  Format](https://duckdb.org/docs/sql/functions/dateformat.html).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="decimal_separator" default=".">
  The decimal separator of numbers.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="delim" default=",">
  Specifies the delimiter character that separates columns within each row
  (line) of the file. Alias for `sep`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="escape" default='"'>
  Specifies the string that should appear before a data character sequence that
  matches the quote value.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="filename" default="false">
  Whether or not an extra filename column should be included in the result.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="force_not_null">
Do not match the specified columns' values against the `NULL` string. In the default case where the `NULL` string is empty, this means that empty values will be read as zero-length strings rather than NULLs.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    force_not_null 'FlightDate, UniqueCarrier'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="header" default="false">
  Specifies that the file contains a header line with the names of each column
  in the file.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="hive_partitioning" default="false">
  Whether or not to interpret the path as a Hive partitioned path.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="hive_types">
If `hive_partitioning` is enabled, `hive_types` can be used to specify the logical types of the hive
partitions in a struct.
<Accordion title = "Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    hive_partitioning 'true',
    hive_types $${'release': DATE, 'orders': BIGINT}$$
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="hive_types_autocast">
hive_types will be autodetected for the following types: `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP` and `BIGINT`.
To switch off the autodetection, this option can be set to `0`.
<Accordion title = "Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    hive_partitioning 'true',
    hive_types $${'release': DATE, 'orders': BIGINT}$$,
    hive_types_autocast '0'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="ignore_errors" default="false">
  Option to ignore any parsing errors encountered and instead ignore rows with
  errors.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="max_line_size" default="2097152">
  The maximum line size in bytes.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="names">
The column names as a list if the file does not contain a header.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    names 'FlightDate, UniqueCarrier'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="new_line">
  Set the new line character(s) in the file. Options are '\r','\n', or '\r\n'.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="normalize_names" default="false">
  Boolean value that specifies whether or not column names should be normalized,
  removing any non-alphanumeric characters from them.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="null_padding" default="false">
  If this option is enabled, when a row lacks columns, it will pad the remaining
  columns on the right with null values.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="nullstr">
Specifies the string that represents a `NULL` value or a list of strings that represent a `NULL` value.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    nullstr 'NULL, NONE'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="parallel" default="true">
  Whether or not the parallel CSV reader is used.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="quote" default='"'>
  Specifies the quoting string to be used when a data value is quoted.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="sample_size" default="20480">
  The number of sample rows for auto detection of parameters.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="sep" default=",">
  Specifies the delimiter character that separates columns within each row
  (line) of the file. Alias for `delim`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="skip" default="0">
  The number of lines at the top of the file to skip.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="timestampformat" default="(empty)">
  Specifies the date format to use when parsing timestamps. See [Date
  Format](https://duckdb.org/docs/sql/functions/dateformat.html).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="types">
The column types as a list by position.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    types 'BIGINT, DATE'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="union_by_name" default="false">
  Whether the columns of multiple schemas should be unified by name, rather than
  by position.
</ParamField>

## Multiple CSV Files

To treat multiple CSV files as a single table, their paths should be passed in as a comma-separated
string.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files '/path/to/file1.csv, /path/to/file2.csv'
);
```

To treat a directory of CSV files as a single table, the glob pattern should be used.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files '/folder/*.csv',
);
```

The glob pattern can also be used to read all CSV files from multiple directories.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files '/folder1/*.csv, /folder2/*.csv'
);
```

## Cloud Object Stores

The [object stores](/analytics/object_stores) documentation explains how to provide secrets and other credentials for
CSV files stored in object stores like S3.

Commit message:

sniff_csv and csv tests

docs/analytics/import/csv.mdx, after:

---
title: CSV
---

## Overview

This code block demonstrates how to create a foreign table over CSV file(s).

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER <wrapper_name>
HANDLER csv_fdw_handler
VALIDATOR csv_fdw_validator;

CREATE SERVER <server_name>
FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER <wrapper_name>;

CREATE FOREIGN TABLE <table_name> ()
SERVER <server_name>
OPTIONS (files '<files>');
```

<Accordion title = "Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER csv_wrapper
HANDLER csv_fdw_handler
VALIDATOR csv_fdw_validator;

CREATE SERVER csv_server
FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER csv_wrapper;

CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv');

````
</Accordion>

<ParamField body="wrapper_name" required>
  Foreign data wrapper name. Can be any string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="server_name" required>
  Foreign server name. Can be any string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="table_name" required>
  Foreign table name. Can be any string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="files" required>
The path of a single CSV file or [multiple CSV files](#multiple-csv-files).
For instance, `s3://bucket/folder/file.csv` if the file is in Amazon S3 or `/path/to/file.csv`
if the file is on the local file system.
</ParamField>

## CSV Options

There are a number of options that can be passed into the `CREATE FOREIGN TABLE` statement.
These are the same [options](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/csv/overview#parameters) accepted
by DuckDB's `read_csv` function.

<ParamField body="all_varchar" default="false">
Option to skip type detection for CSV parsing and assume all columns to be of type`VARCHAR`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="allow_quoted_nulls" default="true">
Option to allow the conversion of quoted values to `NULL` values.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="auto_detect" default="true">
Enables auto detection of CSV parameters. See [Auto Detection](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/csv/auto_detection.html).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="auto_type_candidates">
This option allows you to specify the types that the sniffer will use when detecting CSV column types.
The `VARCHAR` type is always included in the detected types (as a fallback option).
See [Auto Type Candidates](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/csv/overview#auto_type_candidates-details).

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    auto_type_candidates 'BIGINT, DATE'
);
````

</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="columns">
A struct that specifies the column names and column types contained within the CSV file
(e.g., `{'col1': 'INTEGER', 'col2': 'VARCHAR'}`). Using this option implies that auto detection is
not used.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    columns $${'FlightDate': 'DATE', 'UniqueCarrier': 'VARCHAR'}$$
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="compression" default="auto">
  The compression type for the file. By default this will be detected
  automatically from the file extension (e.g., `t.csv.gz` will use `gzip`,
  `t.csv` will use `none`). Options are `none`, `gzip`, `zstd`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="dateformat">
  Specifies the date format to use when parsing dates. See [Date
  Format](https://duckdb.org/docs/sql/functions/dateformat.html).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="decimal_separator" default=".">
  The decimal separator of numbers.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="delim" default=",">
  Specifies the delimiter character that separates columns within each row
  (line) of the file. Alias for `sep`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="escape" default='"'>
  Specifies the string that should appear before a data character sequence that
  matches the quote value.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="filename" default="false">
  Whether or not an extra filename column should be included in the result.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="force_not_null">
Do not match the specified columns' values against the `NULL` string. In the default case where the `NULL` string is empty, this means that empty values will be read as zero-length strings rather than NULLs.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    force_not_null 'FlightDate, UniqueCarrier'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="header" default="false">
  Specifies that the file contains a header line with the names of each column
  in the file.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="hive_partitioning" default="false">
  Whether or not to interpret the path as a Hive partitioned path.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="hive_types">
If `hive_partitioning` is enabled, `hive_types` can be used to specify the logical types of the hive
partitions in a struct.
<Accordion title = "Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    hive_partitioning 'true',
    hive_types $${'release': DATE, 'orders': BIGINT}$$
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="hive_types_autocast">
hive_types will be autodetected for the following types: `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP` and `BIGINT`.
To switch off the autodetection, this option can be set to `0`.
<Accordion title = "Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    hive_partitioning 'true',
    hive_types $${'release': DATE, 'orders': BIGINT}$$,
    hive_types_autocast '0'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="ignore_errors" default="false">
  Option to ignore any parsing errors encountered and instead ignore rows with
  errors.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="max_line_size" default="2097152">
  The maximum line size in bytes.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="names">
The column names as a list if the file does not contain a header.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    names 'FlightDate, UniqueCarrier'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="new_line">
  Set the new line character(s) in the file. Options are '\r','\n', or '\r\n'.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="normalize_names" default="false">
  Boolean value that specifies whether or not column names should be normalized,
  removing any non-alphanumeric characters from them.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="null_padding" default="false">
  If this option is enabled, when a row lacks columns, it will pad the remaining
  columns on the right with null values.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="nullstr">
Specifies the string that represents a `NULL` value or a list of strings that represent a `NULL` value.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
-- Dollar-quoted strings are used to contain single quotes
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    nullstr 'NULL, NONE'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="parallel" default="true">
  Whether or not the parallel CSV reader is used.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="quote" default='"'>
  Specifies the quoting string to be used when a data value is quoted.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="sample_size" default="20480">
  The number of sample rows for auto detection of parameters.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="sep" default=",">
  Specifies the delimiter character that separates columns within each row
  (line) of the file. Alias for `delim`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="skip" default="0">
  The number of lines at the top of the file to skip.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="timestampformat" default="(empty)">
  Specifies the date format to use when parsing timestamps. See [Date
  Format](https://duckdb.org/docs/sql/functions/dateformat.html).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="types">
The column types as a list by position.

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files 's3://bucket/folder/file.csv',
    types 'BIGINT, DATE'
);
```
</Accordion>
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="union_by_name" default="false">
  Whether the columns of multiple schemas should be unified by name, rather than
  by position.
</ParamField>

## Multiple CSV Files

To treat multiple CSV files as a single table, their paths should be passed in as a comma-separated
string.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files '/path/to/file1.csv, /path/to/file2.csv'
);
```

To treat a directory of CSV files as a single table, the glob pattern should be used.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files '/folder/*.csv',
);
```

The glob pattern can also be used to read all CSV files from multiple directories.

```sql
CREATE FOREIGN TABLE csv_table ()
SERVER csv_server
OPTIONS (
    files '/folder1/*.csv, /folder2/*.csv'
);
```

## Sniff CSV

The `sniff_csv` function returns the detected CSV properties as a table with a single row. An optional
`sample_size` argument configures the number of rows sampled.

```sql
SELECT * FROM sniff_csv('my_file.csv');
SELECT * FROM sniff_csv('my_file.csv', sample_size => 1000);
```

## Cloud Object Stores

The [object stores](/analytics/object_stores) documentation explains how to provide secrets and other credentials for
CSV files stored in object stores like S3.
