docs/api-reference/full-text/bm25.mdx, before:

---
title: Basic Full Text Search
---

## Basic Usage

<Note>
  **Prerequisite** Before performing full text search over a table, it must
  first be [indexed](/api-reference/full-text/index).
</Note>

The `search` function returns rows of a table that match a search query. By default, rows are sorted by relevance.

```sql
SELECT * FROM <index_name>.search('<query>');
```

<ParamField body="index_name" required>
  The name of the index.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="query" required>
  The [ParadeQL](#paradeql) query string. See the documentation below for how to
  construct this string.
</ParamField>

## ParadeQL

The query string accepts ParadeQL, a mini query language which can be used to construct more expressive queries.

### Specifying Fields

Each query must specify which field to search over. In the following example, we are querying for
"keyboard" against the "description" field.

```sql
'description:keyboard'
```

### Phrase Search

Phrases containing spaces should be wrapped in double quotes.

```sql
'description:"plastic keyboard"'
```

### Efficient Filtering

Filters can be applied over numeric fields, which improves query times compared to standard SQL `WHERE` clauses.

```sql
-- Equality
'description:keyboard AND rating:4'

-- Simple range
'description:keyboard AND rating:>4'

-- Inclusive range
'description:keyboard AND rating:[2 TO 5]'

-- Exclusive range
'description:keyboard AND rating:{2 TO 5}'

-- Boolean
'description:keyboard AND is_available:false'
```

<Note>
  Filters only work over Postgres columns that have been indexed as
  [`numeric_fields`](/api-reference/full-text/index#creating-a-bm25-index) or
  [`boolean_fields`](/api-reference/full-text/index#creating-a-bm25-index).
</Note>

### JSON Fields

Use `.` to search over text values nested inside JSON. For instance, the following query would search over a field with values like `{"metadata": {"color": "white"}}`.

```sql
'metadata.color:white'
```

When dealing with JSON arrays, the array elements are “flattened” so that each element can be searched individually. This means that if a JSON array is encountered, each element in the array is treated as a separate value and indexed accordingly. For example, given the following JSON structure:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "colors": ["red", "green", "blue"]
  }
}
```

The JSON array in the colors field is flattened to emit separate terms for each color. This allows for individual search queries like:

```sql
'metadata.colors:red'
'metadata.colors:green'
'metadata.colors:blue'
```

Each of these queries would correctly match the document containing the JSON array.

<Note>
  Searching for integers in a nested JSON structure is not supported. For example:
  ```
  SELECT * FROM <index_name>.search('metadata.attributes:4', stable_sort => true)
  ```
</Note>

### Datetime Fields

Search terms will use the UTC time zone if not specified and need to be in RFC3339 format for the `search` function.

```sql
-- To demonstrate time zones, these query strings are equivalent
'created_at:"2023-05-01T09:12:34Z"'
'created_at:"2023-05-01T04:12:34-05:00"'
```

### Boosting

The `^` character is used to boost the scores of individual fields. Boosting is helpful for tuning
the relevance scores of results.

```sql
'description:keyboard^2 OR category:electronics^3'
```

### Boolean Operators

`AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` can be used to combine and filter multiple terms.

```sql
'description:keyboard OR category:toy'
```

Use parentheses to group terms and control the order of operations.

```sql
'(description:keyboard OR category:toy) AND description:metal'
```

### Slop Operator

The `~` slop operator is used to match phrases separated by words in between. For instance, let's say
there exists a row with `description` set to "ergonomic metal keyboard." Because words "ergonomic" and "keyboard"
are separated by one word, the following query would find this row.

```sql
'"ergonomic keyboard"~1'
```

<Note>
  The slop operator is distinct from [fuzzy
  search](/api-reference/full-text/complex#fuzzy-term), which is used for typo
  tolerance.
</Note>

### Set Operator

The set operator is a more CPU-efficient way of combining multiple `OR`s.

```sql
'description:IN [keyboard, toy]'
```

### Special Characters

The special characters `+` , `^`, ```, `:`, `{`, `}`, `"`, `[`, `]`, `(`, `)`, `~`, `!`, `\\`, `\*`, and `SPACE`must be escaped by a`\` inside the query term.

## Limit and Offset

Specifying a limit and offset is a more efficient way of iterating through search results compared to
SQL's `LIMIT` and `OFFSET` options. For optimal query performance, we recommend using the `limit_rows` and
`offset_rows` options instead of `LIMIT` and `OFFSET`.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM <index_name>.search(
  '<query>',
  limit_rows => <limit_rows>,
  offset_rows => <offset_rows>
)
```

## Stable Ordering

Search results are always ordered based on their BM25 score, but we can use the `stable_sort`
parameter for control over the order of equally-scored results.

If `false`, equally-scored results will be ordered based on their insertion order into the index.
This is the default, and allows for the fastest possible query times.

If `true`, equally-scored results will be ordered based on their `key_field`, but query times will be slower.
This is useful for testing or anytime where results need to be deterministic.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM <index_name>.search(
  '<query>',
  stable_sort => true
)
```

<ParamField body="index_name" required>
  The name of the index.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="query" required>
  The query string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="limit_rows">The maximum number of rows to return.</ParamField>
<ParamField body="offset_rows">
  The number of rows to skip before starting to return rows.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stable_sort" default={false}>
  A boolean specifying whether ParadeDB should stabilize the order of
  equally-scored results, at the cost of performance.
</ParamField>

Commit message:

chore: Finalize PR #1541  (#1594) - add a `order_by_field` search option
Co-authored-by: MikeRotchip <p3tr.kada@gmail.com>

docs/api-reference/full-text/bm25.mdx, after:

---
title: Basic Full Text Search
---

## Basic Usage

<Note>
  **Prerequisite** Before performing full text search over a table, it must
  first be [indexed](/api-reference/full-text/index).
</Note>

The `search` function returns rows of a table that match a search query. By default, rows are sorted by relevance.

```sql
SELECT * FROM <index_name>.search('<query>');
```

<ParamField body="index_name" required>
  The name of the index.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="query" required>
  The [ParadeQL](#paradeql) query string. See the documentation below for how to
  construct this string.
</ParamField>

## ParadeQL

The query string accepts ParadeQL, a mini query language which can be used to construct more expressive queries.

### Specifying Fields

Each query must specify which field to search over. In the following example, we are querying for
"keyboard" against the "description" field.

```sql
'description:keyboard'
```

### Phrase Search

Phrases containing spaces should be wrapped in double quotes.

```sql
'description:"plastic keyboard"'
```

### Efficient Filtering

Filters can be applied over numeric fields, which improves query times compared to standard SQL `WHERE` clauses.

```sql
-- Equality
'description:keyboard AND rating:4'

-- Simple range
'description:keyboard AND rating:>4'

-- Inclusive range
'description:keyboard AND rating:[2 TO 5]'

-- Exclusive range
'description:keyboard AND rating:{2 TO 5}'

-- Boolean
'description:keyboard AND is_available:false'
```

<Note>
  Filters only work over Postgres columns that have been indexed as
  [`numeric_fields`](/api-reference/full-text/index#creating-a-bm25-index) or
  [`boolean_fields`](/api-reference/full-text/index#creating-a-bm25-index).
</Note>

### JSON Fields

Use `.` to search over text values nested inside JSON. For instance, the following query would search over a field with values like `{"metadata": {"color": "white"}}`.

```sql
'metadata.color:white'
```

When dealing with JSON arrays, the array elements are “flattened” so that each element can be searched individually. This means that if a JSON array is encountered, each element in the array is treated as a separate value and indexed accordingly. For example, given the following JSON structure:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "colors": ["red", "green", "blue"]
  }
}
```

The JSON array in the colors field is flattened to emit separate terms for each color. This allows for individual search queries like:

```sql
'metadata.colors:red'
'metadata.colors:green'
'metadata.colors:blue'
```

Each of these queries would correctly match the document containing the JSON array.

<Note>
  Searching for integers in a nested JSON structure is not supported. For example:
  ```
  SELECT * FROM <index_name>.search('metadata.attributes:4', stable_sort => true)
  ```
</Note>

### Datetime Fields

Search terms will use the UTC time zone if not specified and need to be in RFC3339 format for the `search` function.

```sql
-- To demonstrate time zones, these query strings are equivalent
'created_at:"2023-05-01T09:12:34Z"'
'created_at:"2023-05-01T04:12:34-05:00"'
```

### Boosting

The `^` character is used to boost the scores of individual fields. Boosting is helpful for tuning
the relevance scores of results.

```sql
'description:keyboard^2 OR category:electronics^3'
```

### Boolean Operators

`AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` can be used to combine and filter multiple terms.

```sql
'description:keyboard OR category:toy'
```

Use parentheses to group terms and control the order of operations.

```sql
'(description:keyboard OR category:toy) AND description:metal'
```

### Slop Operator

The `~` slop operator is used to match phrases separated by words in between. For instance, let's say
there exists a row with `description` set to "ergonomic metal keyboard." Because words "ergonomic" and "keyboard"
are separated by one word, the following query would find this row.

```sql
'"ergonomic keyboard"~1'
```

<Note>
  The slop operator is distinct from [fuzzy
  search](/api-reference/full-text/complex#fuzzy-term), which is used for typo
  tolerance.
</Note>

### Set Operator

The set operator is a more CPU-efficient way of combining multiple `OR`s.

```sql
'description:IN [keyboard, toy]'
```

### Special Characters

The special characters `+` , `^`, ```, `:`, `{`, `}`, `"`, `[`, `]`, `(`, `)`, `~`, `!`, `\\`, `\*`, and `SPACE`must be escaped by a`\` inside the query term.

## Limit and Offset

Specifying a limit and offset is a more efficient way of iterating through search results compared to
SQL's `LIMIT` and `OFFSET` options. For optimal query performance, we recommend using the `limit_rows` and
`offset_rows` options instead of `LIMIT` and `OFFSET`.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM <index_name>.search(
  '<query>',
  limit_rows => <limit_rows>,
  offset_rows => <offset_rows>
)
```

## Stable Ordering

Search results are ordered based on their BM25 score, unless specified otherwise using the `order_by_field` parameter, but we can use the `stable_sort`
parameter for control over the order of equally-scored results.

If `false`, equally-scored results will be ordered based on their insertion order into the index.
This is the default, and allows for the fastest possible query times.

If `true`, equally-scored results will be ordered based on their `key_field`, but query times will be slower.
This is useful for testing or anytime where results need to be deterministic.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM <index_name>.search(
  '<query>',
  stable_sort => true
)
```

<ParamField body="index_name" required>
  The name of the index.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="query" required>
  The query string.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="limit_rows">The maximum number of rows to return.</ParamField>
<ParamField body="offset_rows">
  The number of rows to skip before starting to return rows.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="stable_sort" default={false}>
  A boolean specifying whether ParadeDB should stabilize the order of
  equally-scored results, at the cost of performance.
</ParamField>

## Custom Ordering

By default, the rows are ordered by their BM25 score but we can order them by any fast field instead by specifying `order_by_field`.

The sort order can be changed by specifying `order_by_direction`, default is ascending.

```sql
SELECT
  *
FROM <index_name>.search(
  '<query>',
  order_by_field => '<field_name>',
  order_by_direction => 'asc' | 'desc'
)
```

<ParamField body="order_by_field">
  The name of the field to order by.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="order_by_direction" default={"asc"}>
  The sort order to use.
</ParamField>
