docs/documentation/advanced/term/fuzzy_term.mdx, before:

---
title: Fuzzy Term
---

## Basic Usage

`fuzzy_term` finds results that approximately match the query [term](/documentation/concepts/term),
allowing for minor typos in the input.

<Note>
  `value` is treated as a token. Use `fuzzy_phrase` to perform fuzzy search over
  a phrase containing multiple tokens.
</Note>

<CodeGroup>
```sql Function Syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM mock_items
WHERE id @@@ paradedb.fuzzy_term('description', 'shoez')
LIMIT 5;
```
```sql JSON Syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM mock_items
WHERE id @@@
'{
    "fuzzy_term": {
        "field": "description",
        "value": "shoez"
    }
}'::jsonb
LIMIT 5;
```
</CodeGroup>

<div className="mt-8" />

<ParamField body="field" required>
  Specifies the field within the document to search for the term.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="value" required>
  Defines the term you are searching for within the specified field, using fuzzy
  logic based on Levenshtein distance to find similar terms.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="distance" default={2}>
  The maximum Levenshtein distance (i.e. single character edits) allowed to
  consider a term in the index as a match for the query term. Maximum value is
  `2`.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="transpose_cost_one" default={true}>
  When set to `true`, transpositions (swapping two adjacent characters) as a
  single edit in the Levenshtein distance calculation, while `false` considers
  it two separate edits (a deletion and an insertion).
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="prefix" default={false}>
  When set to `true`, the initial substring (prefix) of the query term is
  exempted from the fuzzy edit distance calculation, while false includes the
  entire string in the calculation.
</ParamField>

Commit message:

feat: Replace `fuzzy_phrase` with `match` (#2138)

docs/documentation/advanced/term/fuzzy_term.mdx, after:

---
title: Fuzzy Term
---

<Note>Highlighting is not supported for `paradedb.fuzzy_term`.</Note>

## Basic Usage

`fuzzy_term` finds results that approximately match the query [term](/documentation/concepts/term),
allowing for minor typos in the input.

<Note>
  `value` is treated as a raw token and is not processed further. Use
  [`match`](/documentation/advanced/full-text/match) to process and fuzzy match
  a query string.
</Note>

<CodeGroup>
```sql Function Syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM mock_items
WHERE id @@@ paradedb.fuzzy_term('description', 'shoez')
LIMIT 5;
```
```sql JSON Syntax
SELECT description, rating, category
FROM mock_items
WHERE id @@@
'{
    "fuzzy_term": {
        "field": "description",
        "value": "shoez"
    }
}'::jsonb
LIMIT 5;
```
</CodeGroup>

<div className="mt-8" />

<ParamField body="field" required>
  Specifies the field within the document to search for the term.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="value" required>
  Defines the term you are searching for within the specified field, using fuzzy
  logic based on Levenshtein distance to find similar terms.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="distance" default={2}>
  The maximum Levenshtein distance (i.e. single character edits) allowed to
  consider a term in the index as a match for the query term. Maximum value is
  `2`.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="transpose_cost_one" default={true}>
  When set to `true`, transpositions (swapping two adjacent characters) as a
  single edit in the Levenshtein distance calculation, while `false` considers
  it two separate edits (a deletion and an insertion).
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="prefix" default={false}>
  When set to `true`, the initial substring (prefix) of the query term is
  exempted from the fuzzy edit distance calculation, while false includes the
  entire string in the calculation.
</ParamField>
