docs/documentation/getting-started/load.mdx, before:

---
title: Load Data from Postgres
---

The easiest way to copy data from another Postgres into ParadeDB is with the `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` utilities. These are
installed by default when you install `psql`.

This approach is ideal for quickly bootstrapping a development ParadeDB cluster
with a snapshot of your data. To deploy ParadeDB in production, kept in sync with an existing Postgres database in real
time, [logical replication](/deploy/replication) should be configured instead.

## Create a Dump

Run `pg_dump` to create a copy of your database. The `pg_dump` version needs be greater than or equal to that of your Postgres database. You can check the version with `pg_dump --version`.

Below, we use the "custom" format (`-Fc`) for both `pg_dump` and `pg_restore`. Please review the [Postgres `pg_dump` documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgdump.html) for other options that may be more appropriate for your environment.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your existing Postgres database
  credentials. If you deployed ParadeDB within your VPC, the `host` will be the
  private IP address of your existing Postgres database.
</Note>

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

If your database is large, this can take some time. You can speed this up by dumping specific tables.

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -t <table_name_1> -t <table_name_2>
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

## Restore the Dump

Run `pg_restore` to load this data into ParadeDB. The `pg_restore` version needs be greater than or equal to that of your `pg_dump`. You can check the version with `pg_restore --version`.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your ParadeDB credentials.
</Note>

```bash
pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -d <dbname> \
    -Fc \
    old_db.dump
```

Congratulations! You are now ready to run real queries over your data. To get started, refer to our [full text search documentation](https://docs.paradedb.com/documentation/full-text/overview).

Commit message:

docs: post block storage + HA deployment instructions (#2059)
Signed-off-by: Ming <ming.ying.nyc@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Philippe Noël <21990816+philippemnoel@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Philippe Noël <philippemnoel@gmail.com>

docs/documentation/getting-started/load.mdx, after:

---
title: Load Data from Postgres
---

The easiest way to copy data from another Postgres into ParadeDB is with the `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` utilities. These are
installed by default when you install `psql`.

This approach is ideal for quickly testing ParadeDB. See the [deployment guide](/deploy) for how to deploy ParadeDB into production.

## Create a Dump

Run `pg_dump` to create a copy of your database. The `pg_dump` version needs be greater than or equal to that of your Postgres database. You can check the version with `pg_dump --version`.

Below, we use the "custom" format (`-Fc`) for both `pg_dump` and `pg_restore`. Please review the [Postgres `pg_dump` documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgdump.html) for other options that may be more appropriate for your environment.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your existing Postgres database
  credentials. If you deployed ParadeDB within your VPC, the `host` will be the
  private IP address of your existing Postgres database.
</Note>

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

If your database is large, this can take some time. You can speed this up by dumping specific tables.

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -t <table_name_1> -t <table_name_2>
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

## Restore the Dump

Run `pg_restore` to load this data into ParadeDB. The `pg_restore` version needs be greater than or equal to that of your `pg_dump`. You can check the version with `pg_restore --version`.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your ParadeDB credentials.
</Note>

```bash
pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -d <dbname> \
    -Fc \
    old_db.dump
```

Congratulations! You are now ready to run real queries over your data. To get started, refer to our [full text search documentation](https://docs.paradedb.com/documentation/full-text/overview).
