docs/ingest/postgres.mdx, before:

---
title: Postgres
---

The easiest way to copy data from another Postgres into ParadeDB is with the `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` utilities. These are installed by default when you
install `psql`.

## Create a Dump

Run `pg_dump` to create a copy of your database.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your existing database
  credentials.
</Note>

```ini
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

If your database is large, this can take some time. You can speed this up by dumping specific tables.

```ini
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -t <table_name_1> -t <table_name_2>
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

## Restore the Dump

Run `pg_restore` to load this data into ParadeDB.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your ParadeDB credentials.
</Note>

```ini
pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -d <dbname> \
    old_db.dump
```

Commit message:

docs: use -Fc on pg_restore too

docs/ingest/postgres.mdx, after:

---
title: Postgres
---

The easiest way to copy data from another Postgres into ParadeDB is with the `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` utilities. These are installed by default when you
install `psql`.

## Create a Dump

Run `pg_dump` to create a copy of your database.

Below, we use the "custom" format (`-Fc`) for both `pg_dump` and `pg_restore`. Please review the [Postgres `pg_dump` documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgdump.html) for other options that may be more appropriate for your environment.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your existing database
  credentials.
</Note>

```ini
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

If your database is large, this can take some time. You can speed this up by dumping specific tables.

```ini
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -t <table_name_1> -t <table_name_2>
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

## Restore the Dump

Run `pg_restore` to load this data into ParadeDB.

<Note>
  Replace `host`, `username`, and `dbname` with your ParadeDB credentials.
</Note>

```ini
pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -d <dbname> \
    -Fc \
    old_db.dump
```
