docs/documentation/configuration/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Indexing
---

## Index Creation

These settings affect the `paradedb.create_bm25` statement.

### Indexing Threads

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.create_index_parallelism` sets the number of threads used during `CREATE INDEX`. The default is `8`. A value of zero will
automatically detect "available parallelism" of the host computer.

For best performance it is recommended to use one less than the total number of host computer cores.

```sql
SET paradedb.create_index_parallelism = 8;
```

### Indexing Memory

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.create_index_memory_budget` sets the amount of memory to dedicate **per indexing thread** before the index segment needs to be
written to disk.

It defaults to Postgres' `maintenance_work_mem` but can be changed to suit the host system's available
memory. In terms of raw indexing performance, larger is generally better.

The value is measured in megabytes. A value of `1024` is the same as `1GB`.

```sql
SET paradedb.create_index_memory_budget = 1024;
```

### Indexing Progress

When set to `true`, `paradedb.log_create_index_progress` creates Postgres `LOG:` entries every `100,000` rows with information on the indexing rate (in rows per second).
Defaults to `false`.

This can be useful to monitor the progress of a long-running `CREATE INDEX` statement. This setting can be changed by any user.

```sql
SET paradedb.log_create_index_progress = true;
```

## Index Upsert

These settings affect `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `COPY` statements to tables with a BM25 index.

### Statement Parallelism

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.statement_parallelism` controls the number of indexing threads used during `INSERT/UPDATE/COPY` statements. The default is `8`. A value of
zero will automatically detect "available parallelism" of the host computer.

If your typical update patterns are single-row atomic INSERTs or UPDATEs, then a value of `1` is ideal. If
your update patterns typically update many thousands of rows at once, a larger value might be preferred for greater indexing
concurrency.

```sql
SET paradedb.statement_parallelism = 1;
```

### Statement Memory Budget

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.statement_memory_budget` sets the amount of memory to dedicate **per indexing thread** before the index segment needs to be
written to disk.

Like [indexing memory](#indexing-memory), it defaults to `maintenance_work_mem` and is measured in megabytes.

If your typical update patterns are single-row atomic INSERTs or UPDATEs, then a value of `15MB` is ideal. If
your update patterns typically update many thousands of rows, a larger value might be preferred for greater indexing
concurrency.

Generally speaking, for statement level indexing, the parallelism value dictates the number of new Tantivy index
segments that will be created, so there's a trade-off between finishing the INSERT/UPDATE statement quickly and the
longer-term search overhead of having many additional index segments until (auto)VACUUM runs.

```sql
SET paradedb.statement_memory_budget = 15;
```

Commit message:

feat: new `NPlusOneMergePolicy` that targets that many segments (#1883)

docs/documentation/configuration/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Indexing
---

## System Configuration Settings

These settings can be set in `postgresql.conf` and affect system resources used by the `paradedb.create_bm25()` function
and normal INSERT/UPDATE/COPY statements.

### Indexing Threads

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.create_index_parallelism` sets the number of threads used during `CREATE INDEX`. The default is `8`. A value of zero will
automatically detect "available parallelism" of the host computer.

For best performance it is recommended to use one less than the total number of host computer cores.

```sql
SET paradedb.create_index_parallelism = 8;
```

### Indexing Memory

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.create_index_memory_budget` sets the amount of memory to dedicate **per indexing thread** before the index segment needs to be
written to disk.

It defaults to Postgres' `maintenance_work_mem` but can be changed to suit the host system's available
memory. In terms of raw indexing performance, larger is generally better.

The value is measured in megabytes. A value of `1024` is the same as `1GB`.

```sql
SET paradedb.create_index_memory_budget = 1024;
```

### Indexing Progress

When set to `true`, `paradedb.log_create_index_progress` creates Postgres `LOG:` entries every `100,000` rows with information on the indexing rate (in rows per second).
Defaults to `false`.

This can be useful to monitor the progress of a long-running `CREATE INDEX` statement. This setting can be changed by any user.

```sql
SET paradedb.log_create_index_progress = true;
```

### Statement Parallelism

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.statement_parallelism` controls the number of indexing threads used during `INSERT/UPDATE/COPY` statements. The default is `8`. A value of
zero will automatically detect "available parallelism" of the host computer.

If your typical update patterns are single-row atomic INSERTs or UPDATEs, then a value of `1` is ideal. If
your update patterns typically update many thousands of rows at once, a larger value might be preferred for greater indexing
concurrency.

```sql
SET paradedb.statement_parallelism = 1;
```

### Statement Memory Budget

<Note>This setting requires superuser privileges.</Note>

`paradedb.statement_memory_budget` sets the amount of memory to dedicate **per indexing thread** before the index segment needs to be
written to disk.

Like [indexing memory](#indexing-memory), it defaults to `maintenance_work_mem` and is measured in megabytes.

If your typical update patterns are single-row atomic INSERTs or UPDATEs, then a value of `15MB` is ideal. If
your update patterns typically update many thousands of rows, a larger value might be preferred for greater indexing
concurrency.

Generally speaking, for statement level indexing, the parallelism value dictates the number of new Tantivy index
segments that will be created, so there's a trade-off between finishing the INSERT/UPDATE statement quickly and the
longer-term search overhead of having many additional index segments until (auto)VACUUM runs.

```sql
SET paradedb.statement_memory_budget = 15;
```

## Index Configuration Settings

These settings can be applied to an existing `USING bm25` index with `ALTER INDEX <idxname> SET (...)` and affect runtime
operations around how the underlying tantivy index segments are merged, and when.

`target_segment_count` is an integer value that indicates the number of tantivy index segments that are preferred for
the index. If unspecified, the default is the number of available CPUs. The actual number of index segments may be
different, depending on runtime operations, but should generally be close to this value.

`merge_on_insert` is a boolean that indicates if pg_search should merge segments whenever a tuple is inserted into the index.
This includes INSERT/UPDATE/COPY statements. The default is `true`. Setting this to `false` can improve INSERT/UPDATE/COPY
throughput at the expense of creating more segments that will be later merged by (auto)VACUUM.

```sql
ALTER INDEX idxfoo_bm25_index SET (target_segment_count = 8);
ALTER INDEX idxfoo_bm25_index SET (merge_on_insert = true);
```
