docs/import.mdx, before:

---
title: Importing Data
---

This topic covers how to quickly import data from an existing Postgres database or CSV file into ParadeDB.

## From Postgres

<Note>
  **Prerequisite** Ensure that you have `psql` installed on your machine. This
  will provide the necessary `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` command line utilities.
</Note>

1. From your terminal, run `pg_dump` to create a copy of your existing database.

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

Note that `host`, `username`, and `dbname` are the host address, username, and database name of your existing
database, respectively.

You can also create copies of certain tables:

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -t <table_name_1> -t <table_name_2>
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

2. Run `pg_restore` to copy your data into ParadeDB:

```bash
pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -d <dbname> \
    old_db.dump
```

Note that `host`, `username`, and `dbname` are now the credentials of your ParadeDB database.

## From CSV File

1. Prepare a `actors.csv` file on your machine at `/path/to/actors.csv` with the following data.

```csv
First Name,Last Name
1,Will,Smith
2,Denzel,Washington
```

2. Use `psql` to connect to ParadeDB.

```bash
psql -h <hostname> -U <user> -d <dbname> -p <port> -W
```

3. Inside the `psql` shell, create a table that matches the `actors.csv` schema.

```sql
CREATE TABLE actors (
  id SERIAL,
  first_name TEXT,
  last_name TEXT,
);
```

4. Load the data using the `\copy` option.

```sql
\copy actors FROM '/path/to/actors.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;
```

5. Ensure that the CSV file was uploaded successfully.

```sql
SELECT * FROM actors;
```

## For Further Assistance

The `paradedb.help` function opens a Github Discussion that the ParadeDB team will respond to.

```sql
SELECT paradedb.help(
  subject => $$Something isn't working$$,
  body => $$Issue description$$
);
```

Commit message:

docs: Write documentation for `pg_lakehouse` (#1121)

docs/import.mdx, after:

---
title: Importing Data
---

This topic covers how to quickly import data from an existing Postgres database or CSV file into ParadeDB.

## From Postgres

<Note>
  **Prerequisite** Ensure that you have `psql` installed on your machine. This
  will provide the necessary `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` command line utilities.
</Note>

1. From your terminal, run `pg_dump` to create a copy of your existing database.

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

Note that `host`, `username`, and `dbname` are the host address, username, and database name of your existing
database, respectively.

You can also create copies of certain tables:

```bash
pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -t <table_name_1> -t <table_name_2>
    <dbname> > old_db.dump
```

2. Run `pg_restore` to copy your data into ParadeDB:

```bash
pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl --no-owner \
    -h <host> \
    -U <username> \
    -d <dbname> \
    old_db.dump
```

Note that `host`, `username`, and `dbname` are now the credentials of your ParadeDB database.

## From CSV File

1. Prepare a `actors.csv` file on your machine at `/path/to/actors.csv` with the following data.

```csv
First Name,Last Name
1,Will,Smith
2,Denzel,Washington
```

2. Use `psql` to connect to ParadeDB.

```bash
psql -h <hostname> -U <user> -d <dbname> -p <port> -W
```

3. Inside the `psql` shell, create a table that matches the `actors.csv` schema.

```sql
CREATE TABLE actors (
  id SERIAL,
  first_name TEXT,
  last_name TEXT,
);
```

4. Load the data using the `\copy` option.

```sql
\copy actors FROM '/path/to/actors.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;
```

5. Ensure that the CSV file was uploaded successfully.

```sql
SELECT * FROM actors;
```

## From Object Store

Please refer to the [ParadeDB Analytics](/analytics) documentation for instructions on how to load data
from an external object store or table format into ParadeDB.

## For Further Assistance

The `paradedb.help` function opens a Github Discussion that the ParadeDB team will respond to.

```sql
SELECT paradedb.help(
  subject => $$Something isn't working$$,
  body => $$Issue description$$
);
```
