docs/upgrading.mdx, before:

---
title: Updating ParadeDB
---

## Overview

ParadeDB ships all of its functionality via Postgres extensions. All updates to ParadeDB can be
received by updating one or more of the following extensions:

1. `pg_lakehouse` for accelerated analytical queries
2. `pg_search` for full text search
3. `pgvector` for dense and sparse vector search

## Getting the Current Version

To inspect the current version of an extension, run the following command.

```sql
SELECT extversion FROM pg_extension WHERE extname = '<extension_name>';
```

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
  ```sql
  SELECT extversion FROM pg_extension WHERE extname = 'pg_search';
  ```
</Accordion>

## Updating to a New Version

If a new version of `pg_search` or `pg_lakehouse` is available, it will be listed in the [changelog](/changelog).
Here, you can view the changes made and decide if you want to upgrade. Note that some updates may alter an
extension's API interface.

The latest `pg_search` and `pg_lakehouse` will always be pegged to the same version. `pgvector`, on the other hand, is
created and maintained outside of ParadeDB, so it maintains its own version. Users should refer to the `pgvector`
[README](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector) for documentation on its latest changes.

### From ParadeDB Docker Image

First, run the following command to pull a specific version of the Docker image. You can set the version number
to `latest` to pull the latest Docker image.

```bash
docker pull paradedb/paradedb:<version_number>
```

Then, run the following commands to upgrade the extensions:

```sql
ALTER EXTENSION pg_search UPDATE TO '<version_number>';
ALTER EXTENSION pg_lakehouse UPDATE TO '<version_number>';
```

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
  ```sql
  ALTER EXTENSION pg_search UPDATE TO '0.9.0';
  ALTER EXTENSION pg_lakehouse UPDATE TO '0.9.0';
  ```
</Accordion>

### From Self-Managed Postgres

First, download and install the extension you wish to upgrade in the same way that it was initially
installed. Then, run:

```sql
ALTER EXTENSION <extension_name> UPDATE TO '<version_number>';
```

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
  ```sql ALTER EXTENSION pg_search UPDATE TO '0.4.1'; ```
</Accordion>

Commit message:

chore: Consolidate `pg_lakehouse` and `pg_analytics` & Separate `pg_analytics` (#1440)
Signed-off-by: Philippe Noël <21990816+philippemnoel@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/upgrading.mdx, after:

---
title: Updating ParadeDB
---

## Overview

ParadeDB ships all of its functionality via Postgres extensions. All updates to ParadeDB can be
received by updating one or more of the following extensions:

1. `pg_analytics` for accelerated analytical queries
2. `pg_search` for full text search
3. `pgvector` for dense and sparse vector search

## Getting the Current Version

To inspect the current version of an extension, run the following command.

```sql
SELECT extversion FROM pg_extension WHERE extname = '<extension_name>';
```

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
  ```sql
  SELECT extversion FROM pg_extension WHERE extname = 'pg_search';
  ```
</Accordion>

## Updating to a New Version

If a new version of `pg_search` or `pg_analytics` is available, it will be listed in the [changelog](/changelog).
Here, you can view the changes made and decide if you want to upgrade. Note that some updates may alter an
extension's API interface.

The latest `pg_search` and `pg_analytics` will always be pegged to the same version. `pgvector`, on the other hand, is
created and maintained outside of ParadeDB, so it maintains its own version. Users should refer to the `pgvector`
[README](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector) for documentation on its latest changes.

### From ParadeDB Docker Image

First, run the following command to pull a specific version of the Docker image. You can set the version number
to `latest` to pull the latest Docker image.

```bash
docker pull paradedb/paradedb:<version_number>
```

Then, run the following commands to upgrade the extensions:

```sql
ALTER EXTENSION pg_search UPDATE TO '<version_number>';
ALTER EXTENSION pg_analytics UPDATE TO '<version_number>';
```

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
  ```sql
  ALTER EXTENSION pg_search UPDATE TO '0.9.0';
  ALTER EXTENSION pg_analytics UPDATE TO '0.9.0';
  ```
</Accordion>

### From Self-Managed Postgres

First, download and install the extension you wish to upgrade in the same way that it was initially
installed. Then, run:

```sql
ALTER EXTENSION <extension_name> UPDATE TO '<version_number>';
```

<Accordion title="Example Usage">
  ```sql ALTER EXTENSION pg_search UPDATE TO '0.4.1'; ```
</Accordion>
