# ParadeDB Benchmarks

Benchmarking suite for ParadeDB. Executes a series of common full text and faceted queries over a generated table,
with text, numeric, timestamp and JSON columns.

## Prerequisites

The benchmarking scripts require a Postgres database with [`pg_search`](/pg_search) installed. If you are building `pg_search` with
`cargo pgrx`, make sure to build in `--release` mode.

## Usage

The following command generates a test table, builds a BM25 index, runs benchmarking queries, and outputs the results to a Markdown file.

```bash
cargo run -- benchmark --url POSTGRES_URL
```

For more options:

```bash
cargo run -- --help
```

## Synthetic Datasets

Each benchmark run uses a single dataset located under `datasets/$name`, with data generated by a `datasets/$name/generate.sql` file.

The queries that are benchmarked for a dataset are located at `datasets/$name/queries/$type/*.sql` (where `$type` is usually "pg_search"). Each query file represents a single query: when a single file contains multiple queries, the first query in the file is considered to be the canonical/idiomatic way to write the query, and any additional queries in the file are considered alternative ways to write the query. The canonical query may not always be the fastest (yet!) but we strive to make the canonical query perform as well as a non-idiomatic, slightly contorted query might.

## Non-synthetic Datasets

Datasets live at `s3://paradedb-benchmarks/datasets/{dataset-name}/`. There can be multiple versions of each dataset. They will be located at the following sub-paths:

- Full, unmodified tables: `source/{format}/`
- Sampled tables: `sampled/{size}/{format}/'

Each table is then located below that directory in a subdirectory named after the table.

So, for instance, the `comments` table in the Stack Overflow dataset, in csv format, would be located at: `s3://paradedb-benchmarks/datasets/stackoverflow/source/csv/comments/` and will consist of a number of large csv files. The version of that same data, sampled to a target of 10k rows in the root table, in parquet, would be at `s3://paradedb-benchmarks/datasets/stackoverflow/sampled/10k/parquet/comments/`.

## Conversion tool

The following command will read a parquet dataset from the input location and write out the specified tables as a csv dataset to the output location. It requires that the output location be empty. It uses a bundled version of duckdb to do the reading, writing, and conversion. It requires aws credentials that can read/write to/from s3 be present somewhere the standard aws credentials chain can find them.

Example:

```bash
# This will fail (as the output already exists), so use different inputs/outputs for experimentation
cargo run --release -- convert --input s3://paradedb-benchmarks/datasets/stackoverflow/source/parquet/ --output s3://paradedb-benchmarks/datasets/stackoverflow/source/csv/ --tables posts_questions,posts_answers,comments
```

## Sampling tool

The following command will read a parquet dataset from the input location and write out the specified tables as a parquet dataset to the output location. It requires that the output location be empty. It uses a bundled version of duckdb to do the reading, writing, and conversion. It requires aws credentials that can read/write to/from s3 be present somewhere the standard aws credentials chain can find them.

The `rows` argument specifies the number of target number of rows to take from the root table. The output will match this exactly for small values (<=100k), and will be approximate (usually within 3-5%) for large values, due to the use of a different sampling method. The resulting row count of the non-root table will be dependent on the dataset, as it is the result of an inner join of that table with it's parent table, as specified in the provided config file.

Example:

```bash
# This will fail (as the output already exists), so use different inputs/outputs for experimentation
cargo run --release -- convert --input s3://paradedb-benchmarks/datasets/stackoverflow/source/parquet/ --output s3://paradedb-benchmarks/datasets/stackoverflow/sampled/10k/parquet/ --config ./datasets/stackoverflow/config.toml --rows 100000
```
